Three words to tell a story: the movie poster tagline
Johannes Mahlknecht
16 Oct 2015
3735
The movie tagline is the film’s advertising slogan, usually printed on posters prior to the official release. It gives quick and catchy insight into themes, plot, and genre of the product it wishes to sell. This article explores the form, function, history, and rhetoric of the movie tagline. What is the relationship between tagline and poster image? What specific information do taglines give us about the films they advertise, and how do they convey this information stylistically and rhetorically? How do taglines differ, in their forms and functions, from one another? In answering these questions, the article gives credit to a long established yet frequently overlooked element of film advertising.

Film Portrayals of Foreign Correspondents
Raluca Cozma & John Maxwell Hamilton
26 Jun 2009
771
This study combines content analysis and a close reading of movies to assess the portrayal of foreign correspondents in films during two periods: the golden age of foreign correspondence (the 1930s to World War II) and the years after the Vietnam War. The analysis revealed that movies generally depict foreign correspondents as heroes, but their status changes over time, and so do the circumstances in which they work. The differences during the two periods track changes for real foreign correspondents. In the golden age, silver screen correspondents were happy elites at ease with themselves even when stepping out of journalistic roles, unlike the latter period, when they were angst-ridden and questioned their responsibilities.

Trends in Explicit Portrayal of Suicidal Behavior in Popular U.S. Movies, 1950–2006
Patrick Edwin Jamieson & Dan Romer
09 Aug 2011
497
Trends in suicidal behavior portrayal in movies may reflect greater societal acceptance of suicide with potential adverse effects on adolescents. To assess the potential for such adverse effects, explicit portrayals of suicidal behavior and the ratings of films were coded in top-grossing U.S. movies from 1950–2006 (N = 855). Suicidal behavior portrayal in films increased linearly from 1950 to 2006. From 1968–1984, movies rated R by the Motion Picture Association of America had 5 times more highly explicit suicide behavior portrayals than did G/PG films. After the adoption of the PG-13 category in 1985, PG-13 and R films were indistinguishable on this measure. The results indicate the need for further study of the effects of suicidal behavior portrayals on adolescent movie audiences.

Portrayal of Igbo Culture in the Film Adaptations of Things Fall Apart and Half of a Yellow Sun
Munachim Amah
20 Mar 2020
287
The casting of some foreign actors in the film adaptation of Half of a Yellow Sun (2013) raises questions of misrepresentation and marginalization of the Igbo people and makes a cultural study of this adaptation, alongside the adaptation of Things Fall Apart (1987), necessary. Hence, the overarching objective of this research was to examine the portrayal of Igbo culture in Things Fall Apart (1958), Half of a Yellow Sun (2006), and their film adaptations. By so doing, the study extended conversations about adaptations and transnational adaptations to Nigeria, particularly now that books by Nigerian authors are gaining the attention of film-makers in Hollywood. Having established, through literature review, that textual analysis would enable the researcher to engage extensively with the texts, the four selected texts were analysed using textual analysis. Nine constitutive elements of culture were studied: language, rituals, festivals, costumes, foodways, orature, sports, values, and religious beliefs. The analysis showed that the adaptation of Things Fall Apart gave a full representation of the elements of culture under study whereas the adaptation of Half of a Yellow Sun did not. Due to the passing of time and westernization, certain elements of Igbo culture were portrayed considerably differently in the adaptation of Half of a Yellow Sun, and some cultural realities made the casting of foreign actors in the adaptation forgivable. The researcher, thereafter, recommended more accuracy in cultural representation, more cultural perspectives in conversations about adaptations, and further research to better understand this phenomenon.

Magazine portrayal of attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADD/ADHD): A post-modern epidemic in a post-trust society
Juanne N. Clarke
16 Dec 2011
1299
One of the significantly increasing risks in modern society is that of childhood mental, developmental and behavioural disorders. Attention deficit disorder (ADD) and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) are cases in point. This paper uses a social constructionist and framing approach to investigate the portrayal of risks associated with ADD/ADHD in popular magazines directed towards mass audiences in English speaking North America from 1988–2008. Aqualitative content analysis examines how the magazine articles answer the following questions about ADD and ADHD portrayal: (1) what is it?; (2) what is said to cause it?; and (3) what can be done about it? The findings suggest that ADD and ADHD are portrayed in polarising and contradictory ways in this popular medium. Magazine stories demonstrate deep ambivalence about whether or not ADD/ADHD even exist. They question whether or not the associated behaviours constitute medical problems. Despite this, described research on the causes of ADD/ADHD is almost always authoritatively described as either genetic or biological. Treatment by medications is often portrayed as profoundly problematic. This contentious and confusing portrayal exacerbates uncertainty and underscores the perception of risk. It reflects the competing interests operating in the social environment of ADD/ADHD including an ongoing but inconsistent tendency to medicalise this as other childhood mental/developmental/behavioural disorders.

How Health Risks Are Pinpointed (or Not) on Social Media: The Portrayal of Waterpipe Smoking on Pinterest
Jeanine Guidry, Yan Jin, Linda Haddad, Yuan Zhang & Joshua Smith
29 Oct 2015
834
Waterpipe tobacco is among the most rapidly growing trends in tobacco smoking, the growing use and acceptance of which are taking place at a time when cigarette smoking is regarded in an increasingly negative manner (Martinasek, McDermott, & Martini, 2011). Given the health risks and the misperceptions associated with waterpipe smoking, this study focuses on how waterpipe smoking is portrayed and represented on the social media platform Pinterest. In total, 800 Pinterest pins were content analyzed. The vast majority of the sampled pins were primarily image based. More than half of the pins linked to a website external to Pinterest that often redirected the pinner to a commercial website. Waterpipe-focused pins portrayed waterpipe smoking more in a positive light than in a negative light, and conveyed a sense of pleasure, aesthetic, and relaxation, which tended to trigger more repins, likes, and higher levels of engagement. Overall, the risks of waterpipe smoking were not represented on Pinterest, indicating that the social media portrayal of waterpipe smoking needs improvement and could benefit from a public health perspective.

Media, Culture, and the Meanings of Hockey
Stacy L. Lorenz
01 Feb 2016
2105
This essay describes a plan for investigating the cultural meanings of hockey in Canada by examining media narratives of high-level amateur and professional hockey during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. In particular, this project analyzes English Canadian newspaper coverage of Stanley Cup games between 1894 and 1907, as well as the telegraph reconstructions that enabled fans to share a simultaneous experience of distant games. Media coverage of hockey brought Canadians into local and national communities of interest, while constructing narratives of manhood, regional rivalry, and civic pride. Hockey played a significant role in the construction of gender and class identities, and in debates about amateurism, professionalism, and community representation in sport. By exploring key issues related to media, gender, and community identities in early hockey, this research addresses important gaps in the study of sport history and the analysis of sport and Canadian popular culture.

From bad to worse: the negative and deteriorating portrayal of teachers on screen
Lee-Ann Ewing, Michael Ewing & Holly Cooper
15 Nov 2021
182
Most western countries face either existing or looming teacher shortages. No doubt there are many and varied reasons for this and no simple remedy. Contemporaneously, film and television can have profound, often unintended attitudinal and behavioural consequences. As reflectors and creators of societal values, axiomatically, they provide insight into the construction and management of both personal and professional identities. The portrayal of various occupations on screen is therefore of perennial importance. Indeed, several professions have struggled with the implications of their representation in popular culture. Teachers have been variously portrayed on screen. However, a consistent and significant negative shift has taken place this century. Consequently, a descriptive analysis is undertaken of teacher characters streaming on Netflix in 2019. Pattern coding reveals three equally disturbing themes: incompetence/character flaws; promiscuity; and substance abuse. Conclusions are drawn and future research directions outlined.

The American war: Italian culture and Hollywood movies on the Second World War
Daniele Pipitone
26 Jan 2018
339
This article deals with the reception of American narratives on the Second World War in Italy, assuming the key role that myths and memories about the conflict played in post-war Europe and the importance of transcultural exchanges in the mass-media age. Such narratives were not imported to Italy by official US propaganda, but were mainly conveyed by Hollywood war movies, which were centred on the ideas of the righteousness of the conflict and of the fight between good and evil. The article focuses on a specific sector of the Italian audience, that of critics and film reviewers, who played a key role in interpreting the films and in fostering their acceptance – or refusal. Through the analysis of cinema magazines and newspapers, the research outlines how the reception of such movies was influenced by multiple elements, the different political and ideological allegiances, the cultural gap between elite and popular periodicals, and the interactions with Italian myths and memories about the war. Finally, the article compares the results of the inquiry with the rare sources about the reception of American narratives among a mass audience, and underlines the importance of a transnational approach to the study of cultural issues in contemporary history.

Star gazing: Sight lines and studio brands in post-war Japanese film posters
Colleen A. Laird
06 Jan 2014
204
Paratexts are the materials that surround a target text (e.g. a film), but they are more than marketing campaigns and bonus features; they manage context and manipulate meaning-making. Film posters act as ‘entryway paratexts’, texts that prepare and inform audience expectations before they encounter the primary media. A poster's main purpose is to usher potential spectators from the street into the theater by visually transporting moviegoers into the storyworld of the film before they even move an inch. Japanese film posters of the 1950s and 1960s — the second Golden Age of studio cinema — did little to deliver a sense of narrative space. Instead, posters act almost solely as celebrity vessels that transported spectators not to filmic worlds but to brand and genre consciousness, both visual metonyms for individual studios. As promotional devices, the advertisements were primarily designed around the figure of the star, who, in turn, promoted his or her parent production house, at the expense of storyworld creation. Overemphasis of star image in the film posters of postwar Japan conveyed an orchestrated gaze that played a part in both the gendered polarization of movie-going audiences and dwindling ticket sales.

Defacing Election Posters: A Form of Political Culture Jamming?
Axel Philipps
11 Aug 2015
729
Even in this media-centric age of the Internet, newspapers, television, and social networking, election posters are a significant form of communication in political campaigns. They are strategically placed to promote candidates and convince voters. However, viewers are not just passive receivers; they can also reciprocate and “jam” an election poster. This article offers an explorative approach to such practices to study their creation and usage. Two distinct examples of defacement are chosen and examined. Both of these reacted to the Social Democratic Party of Germany’s (SPD) election campaign for the German federal election in 2005. The election took place after widespread protests and a loss of confidence in the SPD and its chancellor. The investigated posters showed parallels to political culture jamming, though parody or disturbing effects are not true of all modifications. Election posters are also used as a medium to communicate politics from the grassroots.

In the Shadows: A Content Analysis of the Media’s Portrayal of Gender in Far-Right, Far-Left, and Jihadist Terrorists
Skyler J. Morgan & Steven M. Chermak
21 Dec 2019
782
Women are underrepresented in the mass media and are most frequently portrayed in stereotypical and limited ways. Recent efforts to expand our understanding of the media’s representation of gender have examined the characterization of women in crimes stories as both victim and offenders. One avenue of this research focuses on the portrayal of women involved in terrorism. Although this body of research is limited and has been strictly qualitative, it has provided a useful framework for the current study. The current study sought to expand prior research on the media’s representation of gender and crime by systematically testing the six frames identified by Brigitte Nacos. As argued by Nacos, these six frames are used by the media to explain women’s involvement in terrorism. Using the United States Extremist Crime Data Base (ECDB), this study analyzed the news media articles that covered male and female perpetrators between the years of 1990 and 2016 from far-right, animal/environmental rights and jihadist movements. Findings indicated limited support for the original frames identified by Nacos. However, significant differences were found in the terrorist for the sake of love frame, such that female perpetrators were more likely to be presented through this frame. The current study identified two new frames used by the media to discuss perpetrators of terrorism, which included the disregarded frame, and the overshadowed frame. Of new frames identified in the current study, the overshadowed frame had large statistically significant differences between male and female perpetrators.

Propaganda Tricks – Good and Bad: The Posters of the Mobile Visual Instruction and Propaganda Section of the South African Union Defence Force from January to July 1945
Jacqueline Deirdre Pretorius
21 Jun 2016
657
This article begins to address the lack of research on South African poster propaganda from the Second World War by offering an account of the posters produced by the Mobile Visual Instruction and Propaganda Section of the South African Union Defence Force (UDF) from January to July 1945 in Rome, Italy. The article proceeds by providing the context for the posters, followed by an analysis of the three main poster categories; health, education, and entertainment and recreation. The article argues that the posters align with a view of advertising as a form of propaganda because they employ a variety of appeals, symbols and statements to persuade the audience to act in ways which would safeguard their health; to educate them to become liberal, democratic citizens and to keep up their morale so that they would remain loyal to the UDF. The analysis of the posters shows the use of both rational and emotional appeals to persuade the audience. It is argued that the use of these appeals as well as the conception, production and style of the posters were closely linked to commercial advertising practices of the time.

News media, movies, and anti-Muslim prejudice: investigating the role of social contact
Saifuddin Ahmed
20 Jun 2017
1585
This study examines the relationship between Indian non-Muslim adolescents’ Western and Indian news media use, exposure to Hollywood and Bollywood movies, and their prejudice against Muslim minorities. Based on contact hypothesis, the moderating roles of out-group contact were tested within this framework. Multivariate analyses revealed that Western news media use and exposure to Hollywood movies were significant predictors of anti-Muslim prejudice, while frequent, enriched contact with Muslims reduced out-group prejudice. The relationship between Indian news media use and prejudice was statistically insignificant. The theoretical and practical implications of these findings are discussed.

Remixing Transnational Media: Global Cultural Flows and their Hermeneutic Navigation in Kenyan DJ Afro Movies
James Odhiambo Ogone
02 Jul 2020
125
One of the prominent features of contemporary global modernity is mobility in its various manifestations, among which are transnational media. In the absence of a robust film industry in Kenya, foreign films have tended to monopolize the market. Of significance is the fact that the foreign films grant their local audiences the necessary access to global cultural flows. However, in the process of consuming such films, local audiences have had to come to terms with the reality of linguistic and cultural disjuncture between the content of the media and indigenous ways of knowing. To address this, a practice has emerged involving the use of innovative remediation strategies by the local consumers in a bid to temper the foreignness of transnational media. In Kenya this is evident in the form of the video jockey phenomenon involving the remixing of imported films for the local market by an emerging crop of artists such as DJ Afro. Making sense of these films presenting largely alien cultural material rendered through equally strange tongues calls for a hermeneutic critical approach adopted in this essay. In the process, the essay intends to demonstrate how the foreign films, otherwise presumed to be complete products, are technologically reconfigured and refracted through the prism of local cultural sensibilities to reinstitute contextual relevance.

A Content Analysis of the Portrayal of India in Films Produced in the West
Srividya Ramasubramanian
23 Feb 2007
1519
A content analysis of randomly selected films (N = 24) about India produced from 1930–2000 in the US or UK was undertaken to examine the social construction of “Indian-ness.” There were significant inter-group differences in depictions of Indian versus non-Indian scenes (N = 1016) and Indian versus non-Indian characters (N = 421) across several socio-cultural variables such as character role, occupation, poverty, religious practices, and pollution. Overall, India was consistently portrayed as backward, uncivilized, savage, and traditional. These patterns of stereotypical portrayals of India across films are discussed in the context of schema theory, social identity theory, and cultural colonization.

Ethnic performance, language proficiency, and ethnic media use among Indian American immigrants
Srividya Ramasubramanian & Marissa J. Doshi
05 Jan 2017
609
This study focuses on how and why Indian American immigrants engage with movies from their home country in a transnational global context. Existing literature has focused on lack of host language proficiency as the primary reason for ethnic media consumption. We suggest that for Indian Americans, the motivation for consuming Indian films is driven by ethnic performance rather than language proficiency. A survey was conducted with Indian Americans to explore the relationships among Indian movie consumption, acculturation indices, language proficiency, and ethnic performance. Results show that ethnic performance is a stronger predictor of Indian movie consumption than language proficiency and acculturation indices.

Popular Media Portrayals of Inequity and School Reform in The Wire and Waiting for “Superman”
Cynthia Gerstl-Pepin
04 Nov 2015
597
Two popular media forms are examined—the documentary film Waiting for “Superman” and the HBO television series, The Wire—that present distinct, and at times conflicting, depictions of how to address educational inequity. Qualitative media content analysis was used to analyze the two media documents and to situate them within broader popular media representations of school failure. Waiting for “Superman” depicted school choice and dismantling unions as one way to address school failure. The Wire, in contrast, suggested a more complex and uncomfortable portrayal of school failure where blame is not directed at teachers and schools exclusively, but instead encompasses a complex web of inequity due to bureaucracy, economics, culture, politics, and media coverage. The analysis suggests that media sources such as film and television can play a role informing the public on issues of school reform and should be critically examined as pieces of the larger puzzle of improving schools and addressing school inequity.

Romanian approach to media portrayals of disability
Melania‐Gabriela Ciot & Geert Van Hove
23 Jul 2010
1153
There is a wide range of media representations of disability, but not just because of the societal stigma. They are a function of norms of journalism as well as biases among people with disabilities themselves. This article is a contribution to the issue of social representation of persons with disabilities from a Romanian perspective, which will help to witness the transformation of the general perception of persons with disabilities by seeing the evolution of the terms used to name disability in crucial years of the socio‐political development of Romania (1989, 1990 and 2003). The existence of different categories of representations will reveal the evolution of society, which switched from a culture of protection to a culture of promotion for people with disabilities.

The Polish Poster
Danuta A. Boczar
02 Aug 2014
21
The rapid rise to international success of the Polish poster, following that country's severe losses in World War II and the subsequent imposition of a communist government, is one of the surprising developments in postwar international graphics. Widely admired for its brash wit and strength of gesture, the Polish poster remains to many observers in the West something of an enviable paradox: it reveals highly individualistic and often painterly approaches towards a traditionally graphic medium; it maintains its communicative role; and its aesthetic spirit has survived political attempts to control artistic expression.

Male Mammies: A Social-Comparison Perspective on How Exaggeratedly Overweight Media Portrayals of Madea, Rasputia, and Big Momma Affect How Black Women Feel About Themselves
Gina Masullo Chen , Sherri Williams , Nicole Hendrickson & Li Chen
05 Jan 2012
3505
In-depth interviews with 36 Black women, ages 18 to 59, reveal that exaggeratedly overweight depictions of Black women portrayed by men dressed up as women had a strong effect on their identities. The women reported that portrayals, such as Madea in Tyler Perry's films, Rasputia in Eddie Murphy's Norbit, and Martin Lawrence's Big Momma, were “mammy-like” and the fact that men dressed as women to depict these roles heightened the stereotypes these images evoke. The male mammy portrayals increase the mockery of Black women in the media and contribute to the effeminization of African American men, according to women in our sample. Social comparison, social identity, and self-categorization theories are used for interpretation.

American Red Cross posters and the cultural politics of motherhood in World War I
P.J. Lopez
31 Jul 2015
855
Scholars have long held that World War I markedly impacted women's participation in the public sphere as questions of appropriate wartime participation for women arose. Posters were an important tool for communicating notions of feminine citizenship and patriotism during the US involvement in the war. In this article, I explore the influence of the US involvement in World War I on social constructions of white femininity and citizenship through their portrayal in American Red Cross posters produced between 1914 and 1919. These posters offer a distinct visual documentation of the cultural shift in the portrayal of, and the insistence on, white women's – particularly nurses’ – responsibilities during wartime. I argue that the sentiments and language of the newly splintered women's movements were co-opted into the service of the war and were further emboldened with religious sentiments. American Red Cross posters called upon women to enact their presumed innate nurturing tendencies, and by extension, their feminine citizenship, at both the home and warfronts. In this way, the labor of the private sphere was drawn into the service of the war but without fully admitting women into the public sphere.

Changing portrayal of women during the late modern period in regards to visual communication design
Vildan Acan & Erdal Aygenc
15 Jul 2021
267
The Industrial Revolution, world wars, the post-war periods, herewith called the Late Modern period, along with technological advances created a series of social changes in the world. As this transformation became more visible in social life, it has also manifested itself in visual forms such as painting, photography or posters. These social changes, influencing women’s lives directly, had also an impact on the manner they were addressed in visual forms. In this regard, this study is centred on the history of visual communication design with a visual cultural approach to observe a connection between the changes that occurred in social life during each period and their effects on the portrayal of women while at the same time it also examines these representations in relation to the development of poster design. Five images produced as advertising and posters ranging from the Industrial Revolution to the Second-Wave Feminism era were selected randomly and examined as illustrative case studies. Zeitgeist approach was used reviewing the periods and countries where these posters were produced. This small study exhibits how the style of women’s representation can transform depending on the changing conditions of the era.

Crossing the color line: An examination of mediators and a social media intervention for racial bias in selective exposure to movies
Andrew J. Weaver & Jessica R. Frampton
05 Aug 2019
1492
Previous research has found that White audiences exhibit less preference for movies with minority casts than for movies with White casts. We conducted two experiments to explore why this race-based bias occurs and how to overcome it. In the first study, we examined potential mediators of the relationship between actors’ race and intention to view movies with minority actors. Results indicated that perceptions of the intended audience fully mediated the relationship. The second study manipulated this perception via social media postings. Findings suggest the race bias can be eliminated for White audiences. Specifically, the drop in interest in seeing a movie with a Black cast was erased when Whites read positive comments about the film from other Whites.

Popularizing the environment in modern media
Michelle I. Seelig
30 Jan 2019
826
The present essay comparatively explores and reflects on popularizing the environment in a changing media ecology wherein content is no longer exclusive to traditional television viewing or distributed for cinematic release. Specifically, the aim of this essay is to illustrate how screened presentations such as film, television, and recently digital media, promote environmentalist ideals in the hopes that if audiences are entertained, then perhaps these narratives can subtly influence thinking and behavior. This review also draws from research on mediating the environment in television and film studies as well as scholarly literature on entertainment-education. The implications of this essay indicate that whether real or fictional, eco-friendly content is growing in popular media and no longer the backdrop to the story being told. As this essay shows, media professionals have started embracing entertaining content infused with content of value so that audiences can “see” why the environment is important.

Same shame: national, regional, and international discourses surrounding Shoaib Mansoor’s cinematic portrayal of gender oppression
Daphne Gershon
09 Oct 2020
313
This article explores the essential role feminist media texts play in fostering global connections and disconnections by centering on contemporary Pakistani cinema, an understudied segment of South Asian film. Through an analysis of the discourse surrounding the filmography of the Pakistani director Shoaib Mansoor within Pakistani, Indian, British, and American publications, I argue that Mansoor’s three films, Khuda Kay Liye, Bol, and Verna, have moved across borders due to their feminist critique of sexual violence in Pakistan. Breaking into foreign markets that have previously ignored or banned Pakistani cinema, these films have been able to travel by relying on a media discourse that positions portrayals of female subjugation as stories that expose such a common societal shame that they must not be bound by political, financial, or geographical limitations. Yet, this reception is not border-less, marked at times by anti-Muslim sentiments that divide India and Pakistan, and occasionally characterized by Westernized narratives that centralize the American based #MeToo movement. By tracing the complex processes of reception, this article helps us to look beyond the media’s role in constructing homogeneous and orientalist images of “third world” women, and consider opportunities for movement, agency, and transnational feminist dialogue.

Casting Cultural Monsters: Representations of Serial Killers in U.S. and U.K. News Media
Julie B. Wiest
25 Jul 2016
11039
Serial murder is deeply embedded in Western cultures, and serial killers are the subject of widespread coverage in news and entertainment media. Scholars suggest that mass media portrayals of these cases tend to present two images: the serial killer as monster and the serial killer as celebrity. Media representations reveal much about a culture, and the use of extreme images like monsters and celebrities speaks especially loudly. Yet, few researchers have explored cultural meanings embedded in representations of serial killers. Informed by theoretical arguments within cultural sociology and drawing on a qualitative content analysis of news articles published in the United Sates and the United Kingdom, this study explores news media representations of serial killers and uncovers links to broader cultural meanings. Although there are several similarities in the ways U.S. and U.K. news sources represent serial murder, important differences are evident. In particular, U.K. articles include more monster imagery and U.S. articles include more celebrity imagery. Implications and meanings behind these representations are discussed, especially as they reveal cultural values and beliefs.

Studying religion, audiovisual media, and the production of the ‘religious real’: introducing a review symposium on Birgit Meyer’s Sensational Movies (2015)
Adrian Hermann
28 Oct 2016
284
This article introduces a review symposium on Birgit Meyer’s book Sensational Movies: Video, Vision, and Christianity in Ghana (Oakland: University of California Press, 2015). It summarizes the structure and argument of the book, presents the six contributions to the review symposium as well as Meyer’s response, and in closing relates the religious use of audiovisual media to theoretical debates on documentary film in order to reflect on the production of what could be called the ‘religious real.’

Swedish Mental Health Nurses’ Experiences of Portrayals of Mental Illness in Public Media
Mattias Liljeqvist MSN, Sara Kling MSN, Malin Hallén PhD & Henrika Jormfeldt PhD
25 Nov 2019
2928
News reporting about mental illness lack perspectives of the mentally ill themselves and it is almost exclusively psychiatrists who are accessed when healthcare staff is consulted. The perspective of mental health nurses might contribute to the public understanding of mental illness. The purpose of this study was to describe mental health nurses’ experiences of how mental illness is portrayed in media. Eight semi-structured interviews were conducted with qualified mental health nurses. A qualitative content analysis resulted in three categories: Negative portrayals of mental illness, Inconclusive images of mental illness and Biased dissemination of different perspectives. The conclusion of this study is that mental health nurses experience media portrayals of mental illness as negative and misleading with too much emphasis on the medical perspective while a holistic mental health nursing perspective is heavily obscured. Mental health nurses need to take a more prominent role in public reporting on mental health to resolve the current lack of relevant facts regarding mental illness. Further research is needed regarding portrayals of mental illness in social media and how the current lack of perspectives affects public perceptions of mental illness. In addition, further studies regarding the viewpoints of journalists reporting on mental illness are required.

Calling Western Union: The Cultural Mission of Television Message Movies
David Craig
18 Jun 2014
364
For decades, numerous made-for-television movies have featured sociocultural, countercultural, and/or multicultural narratives. In success, commercially and critically, these programs raised awareness, educated mass audiences, and became cultural events that transformed society.

Colour and utopia: The filmic portrayal of harvest in late Cultural Revolution narrative films
Laikwan Pang
03 Jan 2014
216
This article investigates the narrative films produced in China between 1973 and 1976 in order to analyse the contestations between the films' utopian impulses and the institutionalization of these impulses. Jameson reminds us that in order to better understand utopian thinking, we should consider shifting our focus from content to representation. As utopian texts, these films are also more interesting in their form than in their messages. This article focuses specifically on the ways colour is used, which exemplify the dynamics between liberation and suppression, and most readily betray the multivalent and mutually conflicting aesthetic and political drives of the period. This article offers close textual analyses of three narrative films, Green Pine Ridge (Liu Guoquan 劉國權, 1973), Bright Sunny Skies (Lin Nong 林農, 1974) and Fighting the Flood (Su Li 蘇里 and Yuan Naichen 袁乃晨 1974), which all portray class struggles in the villages around the harvest. Examining how colour is used to portray these harvests, and elucidating the underlying conflicting ideologies, this article also demonstrates tensions between the countryside and the cities, with the purpose of exploring exactly where the Cultural Revolution's utopia resides.

From Ivory Tower to Cross-Media Personas
Nete Nørgaard Kristensen & Unni From
24 Jul 2015
1059
This article introduces a theoretical typology of four rival yet converging ideal types of cultural critics in contemporary media culture and in cultural journalism, more specifically, encapsulated by the term the heterogeneous cultural critic and characterized by different kinds of authority and expertise: (1) the intellectual cultural critic, who is closely connected to an aesthetic tradition, bohemia and/or academia, or institutionalized cultural capital; (2) the professional cultural journalist, who is first and foremost embedded in a media professional logic; (3) the media-made arbiter of taste, whose authority is closely linked to practical experience with cultural production and repeated charismatic media performances; and (4) the everyday amateur expert, who offers subjective opinions and represents experience-based cultural taste. The aim is to provide an analytical minimum model for future empirical studies by outlining the contours of the multiple, objective and subjective, professional and non-professional cultural “authorities” of contemporary media culture.

The Twitter games: media education, popular culture and multiscreen viewing in virtual concourses
Alfonso Gutiérrez-Martín & Alba Torrego-González
02 Feb 2017
1186
Interactive media and virtual environments give rise to transmedia and multiscreen viewing in a new popular and participatory culture. This in turn requires a new type of critical, reflective media education. This article reviews expert opinions on the educational potential of The Hunger Games (THG) and the use of Twitter during the viewing of films by young audiences. The study has the twofold goal of analysing whether the tweets include the topics of ideology and values mentioned in the selected articles and whether the conversations help build knowledge of the subjects that, according to the experts, are discussed in the literary trilogy. The method, based on discourse analysis, is twofold as well, comprising, on one hand, the discussion of 61 selected academic papers on THG and, on the other, 6000 tweets posted by youngsters while watching the films in the trilogy shown on TV. The tweets were analysed using the ‘coding and counting’ technique in computer-mediated discourse analysis. The results show a great chasm between academic or educational perspectives and what youngsters see in the films. Twitter interactions show that the virtual environments where these interactions take place are mere virtual concourses rather than affinity or learning spaces. This draws attention to the need for a new type of media education which not only includes the popular culture in formal education environments, but also uses the virtual concourses where youngsters gather around media products to transform mere coexistence into convergence of interests based on the meaning of these products.

The Globality of Whiteness in Post-Racial Visual Culture
Keith P. Feldman
18 Mar 2015
1523
This essay examines the spatial contours of post-racial visual culture. It argues that the ‘post-racial’ names the conditions under which racism operates flexibly within and beyond the logics of the colour line, while routinely disavowing its properly racial character through the symbolic deployment of multicultural humanitarianism. Even as it works through the figure of the ‘post-racial’ to bracket an engagement with the racialized rationale for the ‘nongeneralizability of human value’, the current US racial order has renovated the social structures that shore up whiteness as the privileged form humanity takes. The essay's point of departure is the iconic HOPE poster, produced by Shepard Fairey in 2008. It locates the poster's public display within a visual field subjected to neoliberal processes central to the constitution of a post-racial whiteness. It identifies two key moments in these processes. The first moment abstracts historical practices of materialist antiracism, such that racism becomes visualized as a manifestly individual subjective affair. In the second moment, post-racial visual culture repackages the visual logic of racial reference by displacing anti-black racism into morally benevolent categories suitable for humanitarian intervention, whose additional dematerialization is propped up by its migration to a digital terrain. To make this argument, the essay first offers a genealogy of the HOPE poster as it emerges from street art practices of commodity activism that obscure the structures of racial capitalism. It then treats the poster's central role in the ‘KONY 2012’ campaign, which redeployed this abstraction to recode the power of sight as a privileged form of US humanitarian violence. It concludes by considering the refusals by activists in the Occupy Wall Street movement to countenance a revised HOPE poster, even as the post-racial figure of ‘the protestor’ was lauded in corporate media.

Content Analysis of the Portrayal of White Characters in Black Films Across Two Decades
Omotayo O. Banjo & Nancy A. Jennings
31 Oct 2016
1806
Race and media research in the United States emphasizes the representations of ethnic minorities in mainstream media. These sometimes-poor representations of minority groups have implications for social attitudes. However, social groups are defined in relation to one another, and race specifically is a hierarchical category with Whites positioned above. Some scholars suggest that whiteness has meaningful implications for Whites’ racial identity formation. Yet little empirical attention has been given to the portrayals of Whites in racially targeted or ethnic-oriented media, where whiteness is most conspicuous. This study uses social identity theory and critical race theories to examine the portrayals of Whites in Black films. We conduct a content analysis of 32 Black-oriented films spanning two decades. We argue that such investigations (a) position race-oriented films as necessary sites for understanding racial discourse and (b) shed insight into how ethnic media creators may use film as a platform to accept or resist dominant ideologies.

Using Movie Clips to Facilitate Discussion in the Post-Divorce Family
Christie Eppler & Christopher Latty
22 Oct 2008
29
Post divorce families have many important adaptive tasks to manage in order to optimize post-divorce functioning. Some of these tasks include forming new boundaries, building effective communication strategies, and forming new family structures. Therapists are often sought out to deal with difficulties during these transitions. The author suggest utilizing movie clips with clients as a way to broach difficult subjects surrounding divorce. The authors suggest specific films may help normalize clients' experiences, spark solutions to problems, and creating a medium where problems can be solved through dialogue surrounding film messages. Specific films are suggested to therapists as venues for tackling specific post-divorce family problems.

‘The movie has to go forward’: surveying the media–security relationship
Bryan C. Taylor
15 Mar 2017
563
This essay isolates and explores a growing body of communication scholarship devoted to the relationship between media and security. It begins by reviewing communication’s disciplinary history surrounding this relationship, and recent trends stimulating the convergence of media and security scholarship. It surveys five prominent research programmes offering distinctive images of the media–security relationship: visual securitization, media framing; media materialism; mediatization; and critical-cultural media studies. It then grounds that survey in a case study of media and nuclear weapons that problematizes the communicative status of security technologies. It concludes with a discussion of potential futures for this larger body of work.

Consumer Culture and Political Ideology Plots in Social Media Campaigns
Adesegun Oyedele, Monica D. Hernandez & Kayla Backes
26 Jan 2018
1154
A number of studies are devoted to explicating global consumer culture and political ideology plots in traditional advertising. Nevertheless, studies of these plots in social media campaigns are scarce. In order to fill this gap, our study examines consumer culture and political ideology plots utilized by global brands in social media advertisements targeted to US Millennials. Employing semiotic analysis, a series of advertisements from automotive, food and beverage, electronics, personal care products, fast food, athletics and financial sectors were evaluated and interpreted. Our findings uncovered one unique main plot labeled “identity-of-self” and three subplots: 1) successful and young living, 2) Peter Pan syndrome, and 3) purposeful connectedness. Implications for practice and directions for future work are suggested.

Role of Culture and Media in Disability Studies: A Medium of Social Construction of Disability
Ranjita Dawn
12 Oct 2019
386
This article attempts to review representation of disability in Indian culture with reference to Indian Religion, Literature and Cinema and the role it can play towards effective disability awareness interventions. Culture as the basis of social representation has been exerting a domineering impact on molding peoples’ identities or self-representations across the globe and has more serious implications as people with disabilities may analyze their experiences in light of the existing meanings and practices prevalent in society. The article addresses the milieus of recurring themes representing disability and discourses of “normalcy” in Indian Religion, Literature and films. It argues that they play a dominant role in accentuating an inconsequential image and attitude wherein “disability” is perceived more as a punitive, dependence, disequilibrium or social misfit. The article analyzes the theoretical outlook based on the social model of disability, a perspective that includes specific analyses of the representation of people like themselves in popular culture. It is based on a systematic and thorough review of works of Indian Religion, Literature and a few Hindi films. Apart from these several books and articles have also been critically reviewed. The article strongly advocates that portrayal of people with disability need not result in characters being relegated either to an object of derision, pity, or comedy and does not necessitate a reaction of any kind, from the other “normal” characters but rather they should be used as a strong medium for raising mainstream awareness of experiences of people with disabilities.

The portrayal of older Indians on YouTube
Shilpa Bandyopadhyay & Kamlesh Singh
14 Mar 2022
63
While traditional media portrayals of older people are widely documented, social media representations have not been adequately examined. This is an undesirable oversight considering the prominence of social media in contemporary times. Further, such representations remain markedly unexplored in the Indian context. Given India’s burgeoning population aging, the changing nature of Indian society, and the increasing use of social media, particularly YouTube which has the second largest user base among Indians, an analysis of the nature of portrayal of older persons on YouTube was deemed important. Through an inductive content analysis of 65 YouTube videos, we identified six primary categories and five sub-categories. These were – ‘A vulnerable population’ comprising three sub-categories the perils of old age, India is aging but do we care? and victims of crime and abuse; ‘A collective responsibility;’ ‘The Incredibles: stories of resilience and new beginnings;’ ‘Toward an elder-sensitive society’ encompassing two sub-categories namely gerontechnology and social initiatives and elder-friendly physical environment; ‘Healthy aging;’ and lastly ‘Productivity in old age: respect and economic compulsion.’ Broadly, our results revealed a far more differentiated, complex, and mixed portrayal of older people than early studies that found a predominantly negative portrayal. However, we also observed the potential for a greater, more balanced and heterogenous representation of the older Indian population on YouTube.

World War II Poster Campaigns--Preaching Frugality to American Consumers
Terrence H. Witkowski
08 Apr 2013
1007
A core value throughout much of American history, frugality received official sanction during World War II when the U.S. government, to mobilize the home front, launched poster campaigns that preached being thrifty with goods and services, recycling metals and other materials, growing and storing food at home, obeying price and ration controls, and buying war bonds. This paper examines the consumption context, implementation, creative execution, and impact of government-sponsored poster advertising during this important turning point in the history of American consumer culture. The final section considers the significance of these campaigns in consumption and poster history, as well as some implications for reinspiring frugal values and behaviors.

Digital media and cultural institutions in Russia: online magazines as aggregates of cultural services
Saara Ratilainen
12 Jun 2018
686
Focusing on online magazines, this article sheds light on Russian cultural institutions from the perspective of digital media. My analysis concentrates on urban lifestyle magazines, a sub-category of consumer magazines and a media genre, which emerged in Russia in the glossy magazine format and is now experiencing a powerful ‘second rising’ on the internet. My article asks how the adaptation to the digital communication environment by lifestyle publications re-defines the very concept of a magazine and reorganizes the institutional ties between media and cultural industries. This focus enables me to analyse lifestyle magazines as a dynamic field of interaction in which cultural meanings are produced and negotiated. Based on new media studies, I see the cultural transcoding (Manovich 2002) of the networked and automatized information transmission into the magazines’ content as being a significant factor in the development of contemporary culture and media. Ultimately, my article introduces an attempt to analyse new media titles combining qualitative media analysis with the developing theory of ‘algorithmic culture’ (Striphas 2015). My argumentation is based on two case publications: Afisha, established in 1999 as a weekly glossy magazine introducing all cultural events in Moscow, and Inde, a digital-born regional lifestyle magazine focusing on urban culture in the Republic of Tatarstan. Urban lifestyle magazines are important for the institutional organization of Russian culture, as they direct their readers’ attention to a broad selection of arts, products and events; strengthen the link between consumers and cultural entrepreneurs and build on a long tradition of print journalism, thereby transmitting the values of reading and literacy to a popular public. Moreover, my analysis shows that, through their multi-platform publication strategy, online magazines (re)organize as aggregates of digital resources helping to manage cultural decision-making in a consumerist setting.

From “woman in jeopardy” to COVID-19 lockdown: the gender gap in TV movies aired on Spanish generalist television (2005-2020)
Lucía Tello Díaz
25 Jul 2021
130
The number of TV movies aired on Spain television over the last decade has increased exponentially. These primarily North American and German productions not only take up a large part of lunchtime and the afternoon; they also portray women rooted in gender stereotypes that are clearly at odds with the female gender values of autonomy and equal rights. However, 2017 saw an increase in female directors making TV movies portraying women in a significant variety of roles. This trend, which continues during the COVID‑19 pandemic, has led to a partial shift in the construction of gender. Our research assesses the transformation of gender portrayal and the ideological construction behind TV movies, including their subject matter, lead characters, frequency of airings, and target audience. This study also examines women’s roles in TV-movie production, including screenwriting and directing, and seeks to ascertain the leading TV-movie production companies that broadcast their output in Spain and address the business philosophy behind these producers. Finally, we review the Spanish channels that most frequently schedule TV Movies in large numbers, as well as their guidelines, target and vision.

Post-feminist, post-race and post-closet discourses in Critical Studies in Media Communication from 2000-2020
Wendy Peters
16 Dec 2021
93
This literature review examines 50 scholarly works published in the journal of Critical Studies in Media Communication (CSMC) from 2000 to 2020. Each CSMC article has been selected because it employs post-feminist, post-race and/or post-closet as categories to classify media discourse. The publication of 50 articles, comprising 9.8% of research articles in CSMC during this timeframe, testifies to the importance of understanding post- discourses as an analytically and socially significant phenomenon. Summarizing the emergence, antecedents and definitions of each discourse as outlined by CSMC authors, this literature review uniquely maps recurring themes within these 50 articles and across three post- discourses, including: relegating social inequalities to the past; containing an imprint of mainstream civil rights movements while fundamentally reconfiguring them; framing solutions to widespread structural inequalities in terms of individual empowerment; flattering privileged subjects by constituting them as morally good, innocent and caring toward marginalized people; favoring marginalized subjects who perform their empowerment in ways that disavow sexism, racism and homophobia in the present; and holding marginalized groups responsible for contemporary sexism, racism and homophobia. With the aim of enabling students and scholars to better identify and challenge post- discourses in media, I provide an overview of how CSMC authors use post-feminist, post-race and post-closet to categorize media discourse and reveal how post- logics re-center privileged subjects and reassert sexism, racism and homophobia, often in violent and dire terms.

Advertising Gay and Lesbian-Themed Films to Mainstream and Niche Audiences: Variations in Portrayal of Intimacy and Stereotypes
Joseph M. Cabosky
30 Jun 2017
855
Research of gay and lesbian content in advertising materials remains limited. Because most products are not inherently gay or lesbian in nature, this content analysis examined advertisements for gay- and lesbian-themed films from 1980 to 2013. The analysis explored whether there were variations in the portrayal of gay and lesbian content in advertisements depending on the distribution width and date of release. The study therefore explored whether marketing materials differed when films were advertised to mainstream audiences compared to niche audiences. Findings suggested that films marketed to mainstream audiences had advertisements that less frequently portrayed same-sex intimacy. Findings also showed that portrayals of gays and lesbians have generally not changed over time, suggesting that advertisements differ more based on the market segment being reached than the date an advertisement was made. This study fills a gap in the growing area of literature involving gay and lesbian content in advertising.

The Binary of Meaning: Native/American Indian Media in the 21st Century
Meta G. Carstarphen & John P. Sanchez
19 Nov 2010
965
Native/American Indians have been historically marginalized in traditional news coverage since the earliest media practices in the United States. Influenced by the media, or forged by the media, research about Native/American Indian identity has continued to evolve and thrive in this new century by at once looking back and gazing forward. This critical essay analyzes the themes of Native/American Indians in the media through narrative frameworks, finding significant shifts in the portrayal of contemporary issues—such as in the contentious legal case of Cobell v. Salazar—when Indigenous voices are heard. Finally, by analyzing the powerful juncture of identity and media, this article suggests six thematic directions for future studies in this arena.

Piracy Is the Future of Culture
Abigail De Kosnik
01 Nov 2019
858
Current conditions of global climate change, fossil fuel exhaustion, economic precarity, and political unrest may be indicators that modern industrialised society is on the verge of Collapse. What will happen to digital and digitised media – files of images, text, films, television series, audio recordings, video games, and so on – in the event of Collapse? The author argues that individuals who exchange such files online via peer-to-peer protocols, who are deemed ‘pirates’ by the culture industries, are in fact amateur archivists whose personal caches of digital media will be the most likely to survive catastrophic change. Indeed, catastrophic change will not be catastrophic for all parties: Collapse may put an end to capitalism, which optimises for the rapid obsolescence of cultural commodities and combats the unpaid exchange of goods in myriad ways, thereby preventing official archives and libraries from implementing strategies for the legal preservation of digital culture.

