

TITLE: The reincarnation of Tiger Mountain: Post-socializing the model opera film
AUTHOR(S): Xiuhe Zhang
PUBLICATION DATE: 19 May 2022
# OF VIEWS: 11
ABSTRACT: This essay is about the politics of aesthetics in the cinematic making and remaking of the model opera (yangbanxi), a performative genre that was favorably engineered by Jiang Qing so as to facilitate politicized lives of Chinese masses by virtue of igniting and uniting the revolutionary fervor among peasants, workers and soldiers. Through a comparative analysis of the narrative schemas and aesthetic strategies deployed in Xie Tieli’s Taking Tiger Mountain by Strategy (1970) and Tsui Hark’s The Taking of Tiger Mountain (2014), this article raises the questions of how a multiplicity of utopian visions has been reincarnated and reembodied through the contemporary remaking of the iconic model opera film. It argues that the practice of cinematic remaking in post-reform China is constituted by the underpinning logics of the politics of nostalgia and the rearticulation of geopolitical desire. Furthermore, it posits the ways that the re-imagination of national popular is enriched with and complicated by the creative impulse of regional vernacular culture and technology of global gesture.



TITLE: Title
AUTHOR(S): Author
PUBLICATION DATE: pub date
# OF VIEWS: 21
ABSTRACT: Abstract


TITLE: A Rendezvous with the Ghosh Brothers: a sneak peek into Bengal’s homegrown exploitation cinema
AUTHOR(S): Subhajit Chatterjee
PUBLICATION DATE: 10 Jun 2019
# OF VIEWS: 55
ABSTRACT: The article is part of a broader research project that considers the low budget sector of contemporary Bengali cinema and its relationship to the regional popular culture. I intend to draw critical attention towards a recent and unique development in Bengali popular cinema that stages a bizarre encounter between high art and low-brow sensibilities in the regional culture. This previously uncharted terrain also testifies to Bengali cinema’s new found kinship with certain established practices of exploitation cinema prevalent in the West as well as many Asian countries, which complicate conventional generic classifications, as well as prevalent taste cultures. The article uses the author’s in-depth interview with the Ghosh Brothers, a significant directorial duo working in this field, to chart the economic and cultural networks that sustain such a fringe phenomenon. The larger aim of the project is to unravel the socio-political contexts overseeing such precarious developments in a regional popular culture and to understand their relevance in the context of widely expanding studies of marginal cinematic cultures



TITLE: ‘Thrills Sweep Like Electric Currents through Multitudes’: Spectacle, Sociality, and Media Competition in Mid-Century America
AUTHOR(S): William Boddy
PUBLICATION DATE: 17 Feb 2021
# OF VIEWS: 100
ABSTRACT: This article analyses contemporaneous debates over the competing screen formats, venues, and technological platforms designed to deliver moving images to domestic and public audiences in mid-twentieth century America. The postwar crisis in the American theatrical box office witnessed changes in film gauges, aspect ratios, and theater sound as well as in the architectural design of motion picture theaters, and the article examines the failed innovation of theater television and the explosive growth of the drive-in theater in the 1950s as responses to rising competition from advertising-supported domestic television. Drawing upon the rich technical, trade, and popular press literature of the period, the author argues for the relevance of the postwar debates over moving image reception for contemporary controversies over the viability of theatrical exhibition in the era of streaming video and global pandemic.



TITLE: Remixing Transnational Media: Global Cultural Flows and their Hermeneutic Navigation in Kenyan DJ Afro Movies
AUTHOR(S): James Odhiambo Ogone
PUBLICATION DATE: 02 Jul 2020
# OF VIEWS: 125
ABSTRACT: One of the prominent features of contemporary global modernity is mobility in its various manifestations, among which are transnational media. In the absence of a robust film industry in Kenya, foreign films have tended to monopolize the market. Of significance is the fact that the foreign films grant their local audiences the necessary access to global cultural flows. However, in the process of consuming such films, local audiences have had to come to terms with the reality of linguistic and cultural disjuncture between the content of the media and indigenous ways of knowing. To address this, a practice has emerged involving the use of innovative remediation strategies by the local consumers in a bid to temper the foreignness of transnational media. In Kenya this is evident in the form of the video jockey phenomenon involving the remixing of imported films for the local market by an emerging crop of artists such as DJ Afro. Making sense of these films presenting largely alien cultural material rendered through equally strange tongues calls for a hermeneutic critical approach adopted in this essay. In the process, the essay intends to demonstrate how the foreign films, otherwise presumed to be complete products, are technologically reconfigured and refracted through the prism of local cultural sensibilities to reinstitute contextual relevance.



TITLE: ‘If I forget anything at all, it’s unlikely the stars will accept us … ’: sci-fi fan communities, post-Soviet nostalgia and contemporary cinematic experience
AUTHOR(S): Boris Stepanov
PUBLICATION DATE: 13 Jan 2021
# OF VIEWS: 132
ABSTRACT: Reception studies is an important trend in contemporary film studies, especially in the current situation, which is characterised by media convergence and audience differentiation. One area of such research, which has not yet developed concerning Soviet and post-Soviet cinema, is the study of fandom. In this paper, I explore post-Soviet fan communities, which play a significant role in the re-appropriation of Soviet sci-fi films and the establishment of a cult aura around science-fiction films. The article seeks not only to outline the emergence of these communities in the 1990–2000s, but also to show their contribution to the formation of a post-Soviet cinematic culture. Moreover, I show how the experience of these communities sheds light on the nature of post-Soviet nostalgia as one of the key impulses of cinematic consumption in post-Soviet culture.



TITLE: Islamisation in the Indonesian media spaces new sites for a conservative push
AUTHOR(S): Najwa Abdullah & Mohamed Nawab Mohamed Osman
PUBLICATION DATE: 14 Nov 2018
# OF VIEWS: 134
ABSTRACT: The Islamic conservative turn in Southeast Asia has been an important subject of inquiry for many observers of Islam in the region. More recent studies of the conservative turn in the region have noted the differences in the religious orientation, modes of activism, and agendas of the different actors in the country (e.g. work on Front Pembela Islam [FPI], Hizbut Tahrir Indonesia [HTI], Salafis, Traditionalists). This article shows different articulations of Islamisation in Indonesia infiltrating the media after the fall of Soeharto. It seeks to examine new mediums of Islamic propagation promoted by different Islamic actors who use film, radio, and social media, all of which have different social implications in Indonesia’s Muslim society. Discussions of media in this article are intertwined with popular culture studies, a field of important scholarly inquiry often overlooked in political and social studies. The development of Islam-based media—in which Islamic pop culture also thrives—is a form of bottom-up Islamisation in Indonesia, which reflects resistance from the various layers of Indonesia’s Muslim society towards the Western-led process of globalisation. As apparent in this article, the Islamisation trend in the Indonesian media plays a key role both in pluralising the various discourses of Islam and normalising religious conservatism.



TITLE: Transgressing boundaries between film and music videos: Smarzowski, Kolski, and music videos in Poland
AUTHOR(S): Paulina Duda
PUBLICATION DATE: 13 Jan 2019
# OF VIEWS: 154
ABSTRACT: While the investigation of how directors utilise popular music in their films has enjoyed relative popularity among Polish scholars, the way in which contemporary filmmakers transgress boundaries between ‘film’ and ‘music video’ in order to manifest their authorial strategies in other screen genres has not entered academic debates yet. The aim of this article is twofold. First, I will provide an overview of the marginalised position that the music video genre occupies in Polish-language academic discourse and suggest a few reasons for this negligence. Secondly, I focus here in particular on a comparison of the visual approaches and strategies prevalent in music videos directed by two notable contemporary Polish filmmakers: Jan Jakub Kolski and Wojciech Smarzowski. I will position their music videos in the context of their film production, arguing that their work for the music industry is an extension of their distinctive cinematic worlds and that it affects both the film language and the aesthetics of the music video genre ingeneral.



TITLE: Young women and the modernity project
AUTHOR(S): KIRAN PRASAD
PUBLICATION DATE: 03 May 2011
# OF VIEWS: 154
ABSTRACT: The global media present images of young women and values that are contradictory in nature. This article looks at the role of media in modernisation and images of young women in the Indian media in the post-liberalisation era. An analysis of some recent cases reveals that pressures to modernise are exacerbated by the global media's increasing tendency to portray young women in sexual ways. India's experience with the new media has thrown up some serious issues about eroticisation of the girl child and the invasion of privacy of young women which will make media regulation difficult in the light of policies that have loopholes to be plugged. The article argues that this reality will challenge India's National Policy for Empowerment of Women (2001), which aims to reshape social values and messages in the media and to use the mass media to portray images consistent with dignity of women.



TITLE: Progressive moralities: introducing new discourses of gender and sexuality in 1990s Tamil film songs
AUTHOR(S): Peter C. Pugsley & Dhamu Pongiyannan
PUBLICATION DATE: 04 May 2020
# OF VIEWS: 159
ABSTRACT: Tamil film songs allow filmmakers a site beyond the regular narrative structure of their films to interrogate the cultural aspects of Tamil society. From the early 1970s, Tamil film songs began to address morality in gendered ways that provided relevant and contemporary cultural meanings for audiences. By the 1990s, these songs were established, opening up discussions around sexual promiscuity and, where necessary, side-stepping issues of censorship through the use of innuendo and allegory. A rethinking of the boundaries of public morality created an environment of acceptability for audiences as filmmakers drew upon film songs as sites for exploring the notion of sexual pleasure and a reordering of gender roles that appeared to challenge the limits of Indian culture.



TITLE: Inside a frame, behind a glass. A preliminary inquiry on law and film in Japan
AUTHOR(S): Giacomo Calorio & Giorgio Fabio Colombo
PUBLICATION DATE: 20 Feb 2020
# OF VIEWS: 176
ABSTRACT: This paper provides both lawyers and cinema experts with some insights about the depiction of law and criminal justice in films in Japan. In recent years, there has been an increasing interest of the Japanese movie industry towards ‘courtrooms drama’, i.e., films set in tribunals and having lawyers, judges, and prosecutors as main characters: a small ‘Golden Age’ of law as depicted in Japanese cinema. This paper (co-written by a comparative lawyer and a film studies specialist) will address this phenomenon from two perspectives: one from a legal studies and popular culture framework, analyzing how such movies reflect – and at the same time shape – the ‘legal imagination’ in Japan. The other, from film studies, focuses on technical, directorial aspects, to emphasize how authors intend to depict the law and its actors.



TITLE: Cartels, memes, and digital platforms: the digital myths of ‘El Chapo’ Guzmán
AUTHOR(S): César Albarran-Torres & Gerard Goggin
PUBLICATION DATE: 10 Dec 2021
# OF VIEWS: 208
ABSTRACT: Since the late 1970s, the Mexican government has been embroiled in an armed conflict with the drug cartels, and criminal organisations have engaged in violent confrontations with each other. Violence escalated in 2006 under the presidency of Felipe Calderón Hinojosa, and since then killings have become spectacular and highly mediatised. An often-overlooked front of the cartel wars is the use of non-official networked media that generates and sustains popular narratives about cartel leaders. In this paper, we focus on the media assemblages that sustain the myths associated with the now captured ‘El Chapo’ Guzmán, perhaps the most celebrated narco in Mexican history. In particular, we focus on the phenomenon of the El Chapo memes as these have moved into a new phase via digital platforms such as Whatapps. We argue the El Chapo memes play an important role in popular communication revolving around narco culture, functioning as artefacts of and even opportunities for political contestation, as well as everyday humour and survival.



TITLE: Teaching Historical Geographies of American Film Production
AUTHOR(S): Chris Lukinbeal
PUBLICATION DATE: 16 Aug 2007
# OF VIEWS: 215
ABSTRACT: The geographies of Hollywood are multiple, contradictory, ephemeral and tangible. Our preconceived conceptions of space and place play a dynamic role in what elements we tend to focus on when discussing the cultural industry of American cinema. This essay uses Hollywood as a metaphor for the American film production industry and a historical geography of production as a framework to explore major spatial and structural changes within this industry from its inception to the present. It highlights teaching methods and materials from the course A Geography of Film at Southern Connecticut State University. Mode of production relates to the economic process where capital, labor, knowledge and imagination are blended to produce a culturalized product for consumption. The American film industry is a fine example of the commodification of culture.



TITLE: Household Remedies
AUTHOR(S): Cait Keegan
PUBLICATION DATE: 23 Sep 2008
# OF VIEWS: 220
ABSTRACT: What constitutes lesbian identity and who gets to define and/or inhabit such an identity in this postmodern and mediated world? This article addresses how the structure of televisual discourse restricts and streamlines “lesbian” representations in television movies. The supposed “progress” of appearing in the virtual public spaces of television and print media may fulfill the queer impulse for visibility in opposition to cultural silence, but it may also come at the price of a depoliticization of queer life and erotic resistance. Taking notice of which deployments of “queerness” are created and supported by text of the television movie, this article seeks insight into how the queer body and queer identity are being hegemonically reconstructed for consumption by this media form.



TITLE: Fifty Years of Science Fiction Television
AUTHOR(S): Vickie L. Edwards
PUBLICATION DATE: 05 Dec 2014
# OF VIEWS: 244
ABSTRACT: The science fiction genre has long held a place in popular culture, and has gained significant popularity over the past century. This research examines themes of governance, bureaucracy, policy, and leadership presented in two of the genre's longest-running television franchises, Star Trek and Doctor Who. A grounded theory approach is utilized for a content analysis of all the stories from each franchise that have primary or secondary themes related to governance, bureaucracy, or policy. Results are presented in the context of Goodsell and Murray's framework for examining arts and media for public administration, with a specific focus on applications for teaching.



TITLE: Contentious practices of postfeminist audiencing: online discourse about cinematic feminisms in Birds of Prey
AUTHOR(S): Janella Paris & Joshua Uyheng
PUBLICATION DATE: 05 Dec 2021
# OF VIEWS: 247
ABSTRACT: In this paper, we examine online audience discourse surrounding the superhero film Birds of Prey, a new addition to the wave of female-centric films within the genre. Numerous studies have focused on the gendered industry politics surrounding the production of such films, as well as their representations of women and women’s narratives. This study turns to the film’s audience on Twitter, understanding their negotiation of cinematic feminisms through the conceptual lens of postfeminism. Through a mixed methods analysis of public tweets, we unpack how the film facilitates contentious practices of postfeminist audiencing. We argue that audience discussions surrounding the film are organized around overlapping frames of feminist affirmation and cinematic politicisation. These dual discursive processes of postfeminist media consumption comprise audience constructions of Birds of Prey’s feminism as raging, calibrated, overbearing, or immaterial. Taken together, these constructions of cinematic feminism depart from dichotomous views of postfeminist advances in media representation encountering misogynistic backlash. Instead, we observe a multipolar discursive landscape in which audiences may perform diverse forms of postfeminist and anti-feminist solidarity and conflict. However, we also underscore that these diverse appraisals remain circumscribed within overarching neoliberal logics which tie commercial value to collective performances of gendered subjectivities.



TITLE: ‘To Think the Home in Terms of the Factory’
AUTHOR(S): Elisa Adami & Alex Fletcher
PUBLICATION DATE: 07 Sep 2017
# OF VIEWS: 272
ABSTRACT: Drawing on theories of social reproduction, this article explores how Jean-Luc Godard’s metaphor, to ‘think the home in terms of the factory’, plays itself out within his and Anne-Marie Miéville's 1975 film Numéro deux (Number Two), as well as their film-making practice more broadly. In particular, we focus on how their use of video and their foregrounding of the space of film postproduction serves to challenge traditional notions of film production, editing and authorship, briefly examining the editing room as a historically gendered place of work. We conclude by reading Godard and Miéville's television works, particularly their strategy of amateurisation and their investment in the domestic, in relation to the category of the ‘home movie’. The place of the home and their practice of small-scale film production, it is argued, represents an attempt to test an alternative mode of production to the one that the metaphor of the factory typically designates.



TITLE: Embodying Japanese Heritage: Consumer Experience and Social Contact at a Historical Themed Park
AUTHOR(S): Heidi K. Lam
PUBLICATION DATE: 16 Apr 2020
# OF VIEWS: 286
ABSTRACT: This article analyses the experiential consumption of heritage that is staged for paying visitors to a historical themed park. Based on ethnographic fieldwork conducted at a Japanese historical themed park re-creating the Edo period (1603–1867), it examines the re-enactment of Japanese history through an experience with embodied and social elements. This historical themed park presents an immersive environment re-enacting the ‘everyday’ culture of ‘ordinary’ commoners, where Japanese and foreign visitors imaginatively role-play and engage the past in different ways. Frontline service workers and actors, who perform historical characters called Edo People (Edo-jin), project a warm and lively atmosphere that incorporates popular conceptions of Edo/Japanese culture and customer service. The past is also transformed into experience-based attractions where consumers participate in cultural activities while communicating with each other and the staff. Consumer participation ultimately brings the past as heritage into the present as embodied experience.



TITLE: Through the digital peephole: LSD and the grammar of transparency
AUTHOR(S): Kuhu Tanvir
PUBLICATION DATE: 22 Apr 2015
# OF VIEWS: 290
ABSTRACT: In this article, I will argue that the use of digital capture in its myriad forms – webcams, spy-cams, CCTV etc – is crucial to Dibakar Benerjee's self-conscious bouquet film, Love, Sex aur Dhokha (Love, Sex and Deception). Use of digital technology is central to LSD's othering of itself and heightening its reality effect. In the adoption of digital cameras and digital aesthetics, the film aspires to a pristine notion of ‘truth’ that exposes the masquerade of celluloid (which the film stages as a staple of ‘Bollywood’). The deliberation on surveillance and voyeurism stages the body as the site where the effect of surveillance apparatus and its violence is most visible. Digital cameras are able to boast a physical proximity to the body that the bulky 35 mm camera cannot achieve, thus crucially altering the way the body is represented and consequently, the way the audience consumes and decodes the image. In this, the film also engages with the persistent idiom of family melodramas that has dominated the cinematic landscape of popular Bombay cinema. Distancing itself from the asexual presentation of love that popular Bombay cinema is (in)famous for, LSD mediates love through the contemporary's signature hunger for access, particularly visual access. The argument that the film makes is that digital technology has access to spaces that are devoid of the romance of ‘fiction’ and are in fact inhabited by a pervading violence. However, it simultaneously also spotlights the technology itself as the medium that engenders this violence, makes it manifest, visible, documented and ultimately erasable.



TITLE: Spectacles of Labor: Viewing Food Production Through a Television Screen
AUTHOR(S): Jean Retzinger
PUBLICATION DATE: 16 Dec 2010
# OF VIEWS: 345
ABSTRACT: This paper examines visual and narrative techniques used in representations of food production and processing in contemporary reality television programming. These include normalizing industrial labor, controlling who is given license to speak, the use of humor, baby talk and innuendo, celebrating artifice, presenting numbers without context, and venerating mechanical precision and scale. The paper argues that together these strategies help to convert productive (wage) labor into televisual free labor. Additionally, viewer feedback on these episodes (available through on-line discussion sites and constituting yet another form of free labor) provides some evidence of the ways in which readers interpret these texts, acknowledge the conditions of industrialized labor, and begin to reflect on their own food consumption practices.



TITLE: ‘Globalization’ and regional(ist) cinema in Western India: Public culture, private media, and the reproduction of a Hindu national(ist) hero, 1930s–2000s
AUTHOR(S): Veronique Benei
PUBLICATION DATE: 31 Oct 2008
# OF VIEWS: 377
ABSTRACT: Much has been written on the relations between cinema and nationalism, and the former's crucial role in shaping people's imaginations of the nation. In comparison, the ways in which regional and national cinemas may interact, compete, or conflict with one another have been little documented. This article seeks to fill a gap in studies of media, regionalism, and nationalism by exploring a suggestive example of the making of a locally‐based regional cinema with a national(ist) ambition in western India, 1930s–1990s. It focuses on the work of Bhalji Pendharkar and his representation of Shivaji, a seventeenth‐century hero‐warrior and founder of the Maratha nation. Drawing on spectators' retrospective recollections and impressions of these films and the powerful part they seem to have played in contemporary imaginings, I show how the Marathi film maker's essentialization of ‘Maratha/i‐ness’ served as a ‘projected fulfillment’ of a nation ‘desired and absent’, yet in the making. Furthermore, I explore how these cinematographic narratives of the Maratha/Indian nation drew on, and how they resonated with, structures of feeling and sensory configurations relevant to viewers at the time. In tracing the subsequent trajectory of the filmmaker's cinematographic legacy, 1990s–2000s, I explore the attendant anxieties of generations of Marathi‐speaking viewers as well as the use to which new technologies are concomitantly being put. Further contextualization of these usages is offered in light of current redeployments of regional and national identifications in the face of technological (and cultural) globalization.



TITLE: Making do with media: teachers, technology, and tactics of media use in American classrooms, 1919–1946
AUTHOR(S): Katie Day Good
PUBLICATION DATE: 14 Oct 2015
# OF VIEWS: 442
ABSTRACT: In the last century, teachers have come under pressure to incorporate new media technologies into their lessons. Comparing educational research, press coverage, and teachers' firsthand accounts of mediated instruction between 1919 and 1946, this article highlights a historic discrepancy between anticipated and actual uses of media in classrooms. Drawing on de Certeau's theory of “making do,” the author argues that teachers' efforts to balance high technologies with simpler, more do-it-yourself varieties of media in their lessons constituted critical forms of participation in educational media culture and small acts of resistance against industrial, top-down efforts to streamline, modernize, and technologize their work.



TITLE: Rewriting history, narrating nation: The great wall inSino-US co-productions in the new millennium
AUTHOR(S): Su-ching Huang
PUBLICATION DATE: 25 Nov 2020
# OF VIEWS: 452
ABSTRACT: This paper compares the representations of the Great Wall of China in three Sino-US co-produced films, Shadow Magic (西洋鏡, Ann Hu胡安, 2000), Dragon Blade (天降雄師, Daniel Lee李仁港, 2015), and The Great Wall (長城, Zhang Yimou張藝謀, 2016). Instead of seeing the Great Wall<i> </i>as a structure that demarcates clear boundaries, I read its film representations as symptoms of anxieties over the impossibilities of maintaining well-defined borderlines. All three films employ the image of the Great Wall to serve as a metonym for the Chinese nation. They tell the story of East-West encounters to construct their own versions of Chinese identity. As each film “narrates its nation,” it engages with recorded or imagined histories to construct an alternative historiography and reconstruct a new Chinese identity. Although all of the three films begin with references to historical facts, they all take liberties and embellish historical accounts with sensationalized fantasies of cross-cultural encounters. I read such rewriting of history as an expression of the People’s Republic of China’s official policy of advancing a nationalist agenda of global domination through soft power.



TITLE: ‘Bollywood’s fourth Khan’: deconstructing the ‘hatke’ stardom of Vidya Balan in popular Hindi cinema
AUTHOR(S): Nandana Bose
PUBLICATION DATE: 21 May 2014
# OF VIEWS: 499
ABSTRACT: This article, seeking to address a gap in the study of post-millennial female stars in popular Hindi cinema, examines the reasons behind the rising stardom of Vidya Balan, tagged as ‘the fourth Khan’ in the Bombay film industry. It represents an early intervention in understanding how a female star in a predominantly male-oriented industry has become a ‘gamechanger’ as a result of the conjuncture of favourable industrial and technological changes, and transforming spectatorial tastes and practices. These include radical changes in the sites of exhibition such as the multiplex; shifts in cinephilia driven by urban youth audiences; distinctive marketing and promotional strategies that have partially engendered Balan’s ‘hatke’/offbeat stardom; and the establishment of new production houses that have encouraged a new generation of young directors and scriptwriters to create substantive female characters endowed with narrative agency and a feminist sensibility. It also argues that Balan’s stardom is an intriguing anomaly when compared with her female contemporaries in terms of her performance style, consistent box-office success, and choice of unconventional roles that have narratively reduced the male hero to a formality.



TITLE: Indigenous Uses of Photographic Digital Heritage in Postcolonizing Australia
AUTHOR(S): Jane Lydon
PUBLICATION DATE: 29 Jul 2021
# OF VIEWS: 531
ABSTRACT: The process of “postcolonizing” continues in the former settler colony of Australia, entailing intense struggles over national identity and culture. Digital heritage plays a key role in these conflicts, in the form of historical and newer archives that have become increasingly important within Indigenous advocacy for recognition. Constructed from more traditional museum, library and private collections, these have become digital assets that now circulate in radically different ways—for example, as proof of identities, and links to Country. Since the late 1990s, as a result of postcolonizing advocacy by Indigenous people and cultural institutions in alliance with rapidly developing digital technologies, a profound shift in management practices has facilitated the assertion of control by First Nations people. These are exemplified by the Aṟa Irititja project, and its replicants, such as the Storylines project at the State Library of Western Australia. Digital heritage and digitized historical photographs in particular are now considered to be key resources for building Aboriginal history and identity, challenging oppressive state narratives and strengthening communities. Despite concerns regarding loss of culture caused by globalization and continuing inequalities, Aboriginal interests have drawn upon this expanded photographic digital heritage resource, to advance their rights through new temporal practices of production, circulation, and consumption.



TITLE: Toward a spatiotemporal consciousness in media studies: locational aesthetics and digital filmmaking in China's Special Zones
AUTHOR(S): Jia Tan
PUBLICATION DATE: 29 Jul 2015
# OF VIEWS: 539
ABSTRACT: The abstraction of space in ‘new’ media theory, together with the preoccupation with space in Asian studies, demands a rethinking of the time–space relationship in terms of Asia and digital media. This essay explores how spatiotemporal consciousness is articulated in the locational aesthetics of contemporary Chinese digital media, specifically the thematic interest in examining everyday space; the self-reflexive and experimental aesthetic that locates the media practitioner in the social space; and the creation of the independent artistic space. To accomplish this, this paper scrutinizes the practices of two art/film groups, Big Tail Elephants and u-thèque, in particular a digital documentary project Sanyuanli, for a broader consideration of their narrative experimentations, locational styles, site-specific practices, and negotiations with the spatiotemporality of the so-called Special Economic Zones. Specifically, this paper looks at how the locational aesthetics employed in digital filmmaking confirm and contest spatiotemporal constructions the Special Zones that reinforce the pre-existing urban-rural divide, naturalize the biopolitical management of the migrant workers, and contribute to a new developmental narrative of the state that endorses linear and progressive temporality.



TITLE: Art by any other name: mediated performance art and temporality in early Nollywood video-film
AUTHOR(S): Nomusa Makhubu
PUBLICATION DATE: 31 Jul 2017
# OF VIEWS: 545
ABSTRACT: Does Nollywood video-film have a place in visual art? Could a profoundly popular visual form such as Nollywood – intensely significant to a very large number of people – be seen as video art or performance art? Rooted in itinerant theatre, celluloid cinema and television programmes, the study of Early Nollywood video-film necessitates a trans-disciplinary approach to its contra-institution visual aesthetic. Writing as an art historian, I argue that time – as a foundational social construct for all societies – is an important lens that enables seeing the socio-political entanglements video-film may have with performance or live art. Furthermore, such a view destabilizes the distinction between art and popular culture in African contexts since it implies divergent conceptions of labour/leisure time in Afro-urban cultural practice, as opposed to cultural consumption. Focussing on its representation and uses of time, I propose that Early Nollywood video-film could be seen as a collective, performative creative practice.



TITLE: Acting through the Camera Lens: The Global Imaginary and Middle Class Aspirations in Chinese Urban Cinema
AUTHOR(S): Shaohua Guo
PUBLICATION DATE: 26 Sep 2016
# OF VIEWS: 575
ABSTRACT: Much has been written about the social composition of China’s rising middle class and their political and economic stances; yet little critical attention has been paid to the visual representation of middle class sensibility in China’s neoliberal era. This article engages in a comparative reading of the actress-turned-director Xu Jinglei’s films My Father and I (2003) and Go Lala Go! (2010), and investigates how Xu’s movies both cultivate and mirror prevalent middle class sentiments by romanticizing and subtly transgressing heterosexual gender relations. It argues that the intertextual reference between Xu’s films, her stardom and social transformation not only projects the cultural aspirations and imaginaries of middle class audiences, but also illuminates the inherent affinity between middlebrow culture, gender dynamics and Chinese urban cinema.



TITLE: Popular Media Portrayals of Inequity and School Reform in The Wire and Waiting for “Superman”
AUTHOR(S): Cynthia Gerstl-Pepin
PUBLICATION DATE: 04 Nov 2015
# OF VIEWS: 597
ABSTRACT: Two popular media forms are examined—the documentary film Waiting for “Superman” and the HBO television series, The Wire—that present distinct, and at times conflicting, depictions of how to address educational inequity. Qualitative media content analysis was used to analyze the two media documents and to situate them within broader popular media representations of school failure. Waiting for “Superman” depicted school choice and dismantling unions as one way to address school failure. The Wire, in contrast, suggested a more complex and uncomfortable portrayal of school failure where blame is not directed at teachers and schools exclusively, but instead encompasses a complex web of inequity due to bureaucracy, economics, culture, politics, and media coverage. The analysis suggests that media sources such as film and television can play a role informing the public on issues of school reform and should be critically examined as pieces of the larger puzzle of improving schools and addressing school inequity.



TITLE: How Demand Sophistication (De‐)limits Economic Upgrading: Comparing the Film Industries of South Africa and Nigeria (Nollywood)
AUTHOR(S): Helena Barnard & Krista Tuomi
PUBLICATION DATE: 21 Sep 2010
# OF VIEWS: 602
ABSTRACT: More sophisticated demand is typically seen as an enabler of economic upgrading. This study questions this linearity and extends demand theory through a case analysis of the film industry in two developing countries. When unsophisticated local demand results in well‐matched supply‐ and demand‐side elements, benefits do accrue. Low exposure to technically superior products in Nigeria allowed a fully fledged film value chain to develop, as consumers were willing to support lower quality output. Although the industry is too weak to seriously threaten incumbents from the developed world on the global stage, it has substantial impact in its home country. In contrast, if demand is far more sophisticated than supply, local industry will struggle to respond to broad‐based demand signals and will achieve accelerated learning only in niche areas. South Africa has become a niche producer in the global film industry rather than film producer in its own right partly because the widespread demand for Hollywood‐quality products could not be met by local supply capabilities.



TITLE: Between ironic pleasure and exotic nostalgia: audience reception of Thai television dramas among youth in China
AUTHOR(S): Amporn Jirattikorn
PUBLICATION DATE: 08 Mar 2021
# OF VIEWS: 608
ABSTRACT: Thai television dramas, which have been a staple of the nation’s TV landscape for over five decades, have recently expanded their popularity to other Asian countries. Besides being exported for telecast, enthusiastic fans who voluntarily provide fan-subtitled versions in various languages have made Thai dramas widely accessible. The paper takes the case of Chinese viewers watching Thai television dramas to examine how Thai dramas evoke different kinds of involvement and responses from young Chinese audiences, who today can choose from a multitude of entertainment options. As Thailand is not considered to share cultural proximity with, nor is it more ‘advanced’ than China, the paper seeks to investigate the aspects of audience reception while examining the positions of both sending and receiving countries, and the dynamics of relationships between countries in the region. The paper employs the concepts of cultural proximity and cultural differences, arguing that cultural proximity does not necessarily lead to positive reception towards transnational texts. Furthermore, the consumption of any popular culture needs not be understood from audience reception analysis alone, but cultural and political relationships between the sending and receiving countries also need to be taken into account.



TITLE: Never, Sometimes, Always: The Multiple Temporalities of “Post-Race” Discourse in Convergence Television Narrative
AUTHOR(S): Hollis Griffin
PUBLICATION DATE: 26 Oct 2011
# OF VIEWS: 672
ABSTRACT: Because convergence is a context in which programs are increasingly dispersed across channels and delivery technologies, attention to the television's multiple temporalities helps parse out differing investments vis-à-vis blackness in the production, distribution, and reception of its content. Programs that center on black characters demonstrate television's temporal pluralities in that they often make blackness a commodity pleasure but only raise issues of power and privilege endemic to racial difference in discrete, bounded ways. At the same time, television's representations of blackness demonstrate how television in the context of convergence enables unique viewing positions for minority audiences. Using Mary Ann Doane's notion of television's multiple temporal orders, I cast blackness as a contradiction throughout the narratives and distribution contexts characteristic of the contemporary medium.



TITLE: Baby culture and the curriculum of consumption: a critical reading of the film Babies
AUTHOR(S): Julie G. Maudlin , Jennifer A. Sandlin & Jonel Thaller
PUBLICATION DATE: 29 Jun 2012
# OF VIEWS: 676
ABSTRACT: We focus on the recently emerging ‘baby culture’ that is fostering a curriculum of consumption and consumerism among parents-to-be and infants aged zero-to-three. To gain insight into how the cultural artifacts, practices, and trends emerging from this demographic are shaping the way we think and act in a consumer culture, we investigate Babies, a popular documentary film by French director Thomas Balmes, who spent nearly two years following the lives of four babies from Namibia, Mongolia, Japan, and the USA. We identified a metanarrative positing the civilising nature of consumption; this metanarrative was exhibited through two main themes: colonising images and ‘civilised’ cleanliness. These themes reinforce assumptions of a thriving or readily emerging baby culture in the featured consumer economy nations as contrasted with what could be read as the ‘uncivilised’ approach to parenting and child development portrayed by the film in developing countries. We argue that the film perpetuates an obsession with a baby culture defined by consumerism as it simultaneously reproduces colonialist depictions of the ‘other’. We posit that audiences in industrialised countries who view this film participate in ‘cinematic tourism’ and thus become implicated in what Willinksy calls ‘imperialism’s educational project’.



TITLE: The internet’s “transnational” boyfriend: digital (re)presentations of celebrity men
AUTHOR(S): Francesca Sobande
PUBLICATION DATE: 11 Apr 2021
# OF VIEWS: 760
ABSTRACT: This article explores online (re)presentations of famous men and masculinities, and the surrounding concept of “the internet’s boyfriend”. The work examines how such discourse is shaped by global dynamics, structural racism, an “economy of visibility”, and demand for depictions of “difference.” Drawing on studies of celebrity, masculinities, marketing, and digital culture, I analyse how three famous men who are publicly desired and/or admired are (re)presented in digital spheres—memes, videos, articles, and accumulative discourse. Focusing on (re)presentations of Timothée Chalamet, Idris Elba, and Bong Joon-ho, I scrutinise how famous men are transnationally remediated in ways that can reinforce, resist, and rupture Anglo-Western normative notions of desirable masculinity. Culturally specific and hybridised ideas, identities, and ideologies that are projected onto such men online reveal the entanglements of issues concerning sexuality, (non)whiteness, exoticisation, nationality, masculinity, celebrity, and global media. Although “the internet’s boyfriend” is not always white, he is often someone who grew up in, identifies with, and is praised within, Western cultures. This article explicates how and why online (re)presentations of famous men in a transnational media landscape are couched in common narratives which include them being claimed as an (inter)national treasure, attractive to Anglophiles, and (re)presented as eccentric and exoticised Others.



TITLE: From Gutenberg to Gates: Media Matters
AUTHOR(S): David M. Considine
PUBLICATION DATE: 07 Aug 2010
# OF VIEWS: 792
ABSTRACT: Media consolidation and convergence have increasingly changed the way individuals as both consumers and citizens access, process, and communicate information at the local, national, and global levels. Media industries and institutions influence public perception and occupy our time at work and at home more and more. Media literacy has become recognized as a twenty-first-century skill necessary for civic competence and the development of informed, responsible citizens. Although it has long been established in the curricula of other nations, it is relatively new in the United States. Media literacy is not simply teaching with media—rather, it entails teaching about media. Key frameworks such as the Text, Audience, and Production (TAP) model, which is explained in this article, can be used to help students systematically analyze and evaluate the wide range of media texts they are exposed to on a daily basis. The author discusses how media literacy is also compatible with several of the major strands identified by the National Council for the Social Studies and can be facilitated by the growing range of resources available to teachers.



TITLE: Popularizing the environment in modern media
AUTHOR(S): Michelle I. Seelig
PUBLICATION DATE: 30 Jan 2019
# OF VIEWS: 826
ABSTRACT: The present essay comparatively explores and reflects on popularizing the environment in a changing media ecology wherein content is no longer exclusive to traditional television viewing or distributed for cinematic release. Specifically, the aim of this essay is to illustrate how screened presentations such as film, television, and recently digital media, promote environmentalist ideals in the hopes that if audiences are entertained, then perhaps these narratives can subtly influence thinking and behavior. This review also draws from research on mediating the environment in television and film studies as well as scholarly literature on entertainment-education. The implications of this essay indicate that whether real or fictional, eco-friendly content is growing in popular media and no longer the backdrop to the story being told. As this essay shows, media professionals have started embracing entertaining content infused with content of value so that audiences can “see” why the environment is important.



TITLE: To Be or Not To Be?—China's Cultural Policy and Counterhegemony Strategy Toward Global Hollywood from 1994 to 2000
AUTHOR(S): Wendy Su
PUBLICATION DATE: 07 Jan 2010
# OF VIEWS: 973
ABSTRACT: The study critically reviews China's cultural policy and counterhegemony strategy against global Hollywood from 1994 to 2000. The central argument is that the Chinese government's strategy of using the so-called main melody propagandistic films to battle against Hollywood from 1994 to 2000 is ineffective in terms of film market recouped and quality films produced, but may be considered partially successful in terms of the technological renovation of film exhibition infrastructure. The reason lies in the conflict between a planned production and a market demand, plus an ambivalent explanation of the function of the film industry and an unclear definition of the cultural policy. This conflict not only speaks to the complexity of global-local interplay, but also reflects the fundamental dilemma of China's “one-party market economy” (Kahn, 2002, ¶ 2), and its contradictory perspective on globalization. The study also revisits the thesis of “cultural imperialism” and calls for a more synthesized way to explain the complex global-local dialectic.



TITLE: Small Screen IR: A Tentative Typology of Geopolitical Television
AUTHOR(S): Robert A. Saunders
PUBLICATION DATE: 03 Nov 2017
# OF VIEWS: 1090
ABSTRACT: Daniel Drezner recently stated: ‘We live in a Golden Age of international relations programming on television’; however, while geopolitical television dramas have flourished since the new millennium, IR scholars and political geographers have paid relatively little attention, instead focusing more attention on films. Given the capacity of television series to respond to headlines from around the world, as well as cater to audience tastes, the medium provides a substantively different platform for engaging and interrogating world affairs and negotiating geopolitical realities. In this article, I will discuss the emergence of the so-called geopolitical TV or small screen IR, and examine how technological advances and social transformations have created conditions for increasingly sophisticated offerings that interrogate a wide variety of issues in world politics. Addressing the shift towards more intellectually demanding fare since 2001, I provide a brief overview of the evolution of geopolitical TV since 2001, focusing initially on American dramas such as Lost, The Wire and 24, before moving on to more recent examples of geopolitically inflected programming which include case studies from Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Germany, and the US. In its empirical and structural contributions, this article provides a tentative typology of the genre, classifying geopolitical television series into five distinct groups with a representative empirical case study for each: 1) exotic-irrealist (Berlin Station); 2) parliamentary-domestic (Borgen); 3) procedural-localised (The Bridge); 4) historical-revisionist (Deutschland 83); and 5) speculative-fantastical (Occupied). In its normative and theoretical contributions, this article seeks to advance the study of small screen geopolitical interventions, arguing that geopolitical television series function both as a mirror/reflection of IR and an imaginative/predictive force in contemporary world politics.



TITLE: Film Islami: Gender, Piety and Pop Culture in Post-Authoritarian Indonesia
AUTHOR(S): James B. Hoesterey & Marshall Clark
PUBLICATION DATE: 06 Jun 2012
# OF VIEWS: 1537
ABSTRACT: Popular culture has become an important arena through which Muslims in contemporary Indonesia constitute and contest ideas about Islam, piety and gender. Despite the broad understandings of gender that are now commonplace in the West, scholarship on gender in Indonesia has tended to focus overwhelmingly on the status of women. This article aims to redress this scholarly lacuna by examining, among other things, representations of men and masculinities in recent Indonesian popular culture, primarily focusing on the burgeoning trend of “pop Islam” films, most commonly known as film Islami . We argue that the popularity – and controversy – associated with film Islami is closely related to the increasing Islamisation of Indonesian society and politics and the emergence of new understandings of what Muslim masculinity should and can be in contemporary Indonesia.



TITLE: Cultural History’s Absent Audience
AUTHOR(S): Christine Grandy
PUBLICATION DATE: 21 Oct 2019
# OF VIEWS: 2145
ABSTRACT: This article reconsiders Peter Mandler’s essay ‘The Problem with Cultural History,’ and the complexities of locating evidence of culture’s impact upon ordinary people, or ‘throw.’ A brief examination of the history of market research and public opinion surveys in the 20th century offers important lessons for the cultural historian faced with locating and interpreting evidence of audience response that is either rarely there, or more disturbingly, rarely meaningful by our current standards of interpretation. Ultimately this paper asks of my fellow cultural historians: Does culture matter as much as we cultural historians want it to?



TITLE: Transnational imagination in action cinema: Hong Kong and the making of a global popular culture
AUTHOR(S): Meaghan Morris
PUBLICATION DATE: 25 May 2006
# OF VIEWS: 2940
ABSTRACT: Taking action cinema as an example, this paper outlines a historical approach to the transnational study of globally popular cultural forms. Action cinema has long had a complex economy in which Hollywood not only trades stars, styles and narratives with the hybrid culture of Hong Kong cinema itself, but draws on a vast ‘direct to tape’ industry significantly based in East Asia. The paper outlines a Hong Kong‐based approach to two earlier phases in the history of action: the ‘international co‐production’ as an industrially innovative form (1973–85), and the golden age of the ‘direct to tape’ industry enabled by the rapid spread of video technology (1985–93). Focusing on the latter, it suggests that the global uptake by filmmakers of a ‘contact’ narrative and an ethic of emulation taken from Hong Kong cinema allowed direct‐to‐video action to address issues of social class in emotionally complex ways.



TITLE: Dead famous and dead sexy: Popular culture, forensics, and the rise of the corpse
AUTHOR(S): Jacque Lynn Foltyn PhD
PUBLICATION DATE: 16 May 2008
# OF VIEWS: 3378
ABSTRACT: This paper examines the rise of the real and simulated cadaver of scientific and forensic investigation in popular culture and the cultural meanings of that ascent. While it spotlights the celebrity corpse, it explores the obscure one too, for modern media constructions have transformed both into infotainment commodities. In societies oversaturated with images of sex, death is the new sex, the corpse the new body to be voyeuristically explored. Gorer's essay, The pornography of death (1955) is updated with a discussion of three kinds of dead body porn, including corpse porn. Other themes examined include: the continuity and discontinuity between actual corpses and their facsimiles, how images of corpses figure with other representations of the body, cultural ambivalence about the corpse, the banality of death, the search for immortality, and how the corpse as a social construction challenges Western cultural taboos and practices surrounding the dead body.



TITLE: Film tourism as heritage tourism: Scotland, diaspora and The Da Vinci Code (2006)
AUTHOR(S): David Martin-Jones
PUBLICATION DATE: 31 Jan 2014
# OF VIEWS: 3594
ABSTRACT: Using the case study of The Da Vinci Code (2006), especially the extensive promotional activities surrounding the film (organised by VisitScotland, Maison de la France, and VisitBritain), this paper argues that film tourism be understood as a facet of heritage tourism. Scotland is a nation with a long history as a destination for heritage tourism, including literary and art tourism, whose brand identity in this regard functions slightly differently to that of England. Scotland has a large international diaspora, the result of its specific national history, which conceives of itself as Scottish, and returns – from New Zealand, Australia, Canada, and the USA – to events like Homecoming Scotland (2009) to reconnect with its roots in the manner of heritage tourism. The Da Vinci Code, like Braveheart before it and Brave since, appeals to this international audience through its depiction of Scotland. By analysing the film's construction of history, and the scenes shot in Rosslyn Chapel near Edinburgh (Rosslyn has previously featured in paintings and photographs, and was the star of a famous diorama in the early nineteenth century), it becomes evident that a sense of return and belonging is evoked in this Scottish setting that can resonate with heritage tourists.



TITLE: Stuart Hall: Re-reading Cultural Identity, Diaspora, and Film
AUTHOR(S): Sam Harman
PUBLICATION DATE: 30 Mar 2016
# OF VIEWS: 5155
ABSTRACT: This article focuses on Stuart Hall's interdisciplinary theoretical work on race, class, and representation in 1980s Britain and his engagement with the wider arts and film culture. In this postcolonial and postwar period of U.K. history, Hall's theoretical work on emerging cultural identity, his role as public intellectual and connotative presence on the TV screen, and frequent interventions into public debate helped shape and advance the development of emerging Black identity in Britain. This article explores the ways in which Hall's work accomplished these things from the 1980s through the development of cultural theory, while also raising key questions on the role of film art in the formation and articulation of Black diaspora identity. There is further inquiry into the role of experimental and conventional forms of cinematic language for the development and expression of emerging identity in 1980s Britain, and the role of public and private funding for the development of Black British cinema. Hall's work and engagement with social justice remain relevant for broader understandings of historical conjunctures, and for progressive readings of emergent sub-cultures and representational forms resistant to cultural hegemony in corporate media societies.



TITLE: Mainstreaming Kink
AUTHOR(S): Margot D. Weiss PhD
PUBLICATION DATE: 22 Sep 2008
# OF VIEWS: 5163
ABSTRACT: This article explores nonpractitioners' understandings of and responses to the increasingly mainstream representation of BDSM in U.S. media, focusing on the film Secretary(Shainberg, 2002). Survey, focus group, and interview data indicate that popular images of SM promote the acceptance and understanding of sexual minorities through two mechanisms: acceptance via normalizationand understanding viapathologizing. Rather than challenging the privileged status of normative sexuality, these mechanisms reinforce boundaries between protected/privileged and policed/pathological sexualities. Instead of celebrating increased representation, this article argues that political energy might be directed toward the desire that the popularity of BDSM representations signifies: the desire to encounter authentic, undisciplined, and noncommodified representations that would transgress the sexual norms of American postmodern consumer culture.



TITLE: Nostalgia is not what it used to be: heritage films, nostalgia websites and contemporary consumers
AUTHOR(S): Andrew Higson
PUBLICATION DATE: 18 Mar 2013
# OF VIEWS: 6077
ABSTRACT: Nostalgia is not a singular phenomenon; it is multi-layered, diversely experienced and variously exploited, as I demonstrate by briefly outlining the history of nostalgia, especially the recent shift from modern to post-modern versions of the experience. The modern, temporal version of nostalgia is founded on the unattainable distance between the past and the present; the post-modern, atemporal version erases this sense of distance. Central to the modern concept of nostalgia is the experience of wistfulness, a hopeless longing for something lost and irrecoverable. But for post-modern nostalgics, the irrecoverable is now attainable, the difference between past and present flattened out. This is partly because post-modern nostalgia re-cycles images, objects and styles associated with the relatively recent past, a prime site of such re-cycling being the Internet. I therefore look at a range of websites that use nostalgia as a central concept in their marketing and which demonstrate some of these recent shifts in the experience of nostalgia. In the final part of this article, I explore these concerns in relation to the reception of four films about the English, past released in the 2000s: Ladies in Lavender (2004), Becoming Jane (2007), Brideshead Revisited (2008) and An Education (2009). How are films mobilised for nostalgic purposes at the levels of production, marketing and consumption? How is an experience of the past built into these films? Are some of the resulting images, sounds and pasts more resistant to nostalgic uses than others? Are these films discussed by audiences in terms of nostalgia? If so, is this is a positive or negative experience? Ranging in this way across a variety of material, my article is an attempt to bring together cultural history, conceptual, formal analysis and the analysis of reception or consumption.

